So we've seen how Macie can identify issues with our S3 buckets
and objects to help us protect our data and display this
information to us in the Macie console.
But equally important from a security standpoint is the ability
to proactively monitor your data and take quick automated
action when problems are discovered.
To do this, Macie integrates with CloudWatch Events,
which allows you to configure targets for notifications that
are generated by different AWS services.
These targets can be anything from a simple notification service or
SNS topic configured to send an email to a system administrator or a
lambda function that automatically updates an S3 bucket policy or
even a workflow using step functions. Macie can generate two types
of events, alerts,
which include things like an item containing PII being found within a
publicly accessible S3 bucket and findings, which include things like AWS
credentials discovered inside an object stored in S3.
Let's take a look in the console to see how Macie
integrates with CloudWatch events.
In this demo,
we will view the alerts and findings Macie can generate for data security and
see how we can set up CloudWatch events to notify administrators or
automatically take action when data security issues arise.
So here I am inside the CloudWatch console,
and I can come over here and click Events.
And if I click Get started,
you see that CloudWatch Events uses rules that
consist of event sources and targets.
So for my Event Source, I can go to the Service Name and choose Macie.
And for the Event Type here, you see we can choose Macie Alert or Macie Finding.
So if I choose Macie Alert,
I can scroll down and click Show sample event(s), and this
will give me some examples of the JSON payload that CloudWatch
events would receive from Macie.
And if I scroll down, you see there's a ton of detail in here,
and here's an example alert for Bucket is writable by all authenticated
users, so things like that. And if I go back up here and change this to
Macie Finding and look at these sample events,
you see information for some things like the count of sensitive items.
So if you'll remember, our employee ID document that had 236
employees IDs, and 17 credit card numbers, 28 addresses, things
like that, those numbers would all show up here in the detections
section of the event data.
So those are the event sources, and then we have the targets.
If I click Add target, you see we can have up to five targets for a single rule,
and I can choose Lambda function or an SNS topic or
even a Step Functions state machine.
So depending on what the metadata is within the event,
I could use SNS to email a system administrator or have a lambda function
update an S3 bucket policy to remove public right access,
or maybe even kick off a workflow that determines whether an
object ACL needs to be updated based on exactly what was
found within a particular object.
And we can set all of this up to happen automatically.
So if we configure a data discovery job within Macie to run
on a schedule and then have the proper rules set up for
Macie within CloudWatch Events,
we can set up a really powerful system to quickly respond to security incidents in an automated way.